I was going to tell you thank you for
saying that because I can't tell you how
many patients that I personally see that
have come in and have had different
pharmaceutical after pharmaceutical
thrown Adam kind of testing the waters
experimentally to see which one will
will take care of the depression or the
anxiety or whatever it might be that
they're being treated for but something
that is often done in general practice
is doctors will use lab tests as
objective measures to monitor treatment
but something that we rarely see done in
psychiatry is using actual objective lab
measures to measure whether he'll
respond to patients going to have to a
medication so appreciate you pointing
that out nice to me that's my mission
right there I mean mid sick and kind of
like it's I would be remiss if I didn't
repeat it every five minutes throughout
the entire interview because I think
what's going on is that in psychiatry
land I'll just give you my little pitch
on this because I get on my soapbox
really quickly and apologize for going
off a little bit but over in psychiatry
land we've had a vertical management
system since the days of Freud really
and that vertical management system is
your patient you're sick you come in and
I'll review what's going to happen what
you're telling me and I'll tell you
what's going to happen with that and and
that vertical management system really
only looks at surface appearances so all
of our diagnostic codes are appearances
think about it just take ADHD for
example hyperactive inattentive and
combined are all surface appearance
diagnosis they have nothing to do with
brain function whatsoever they're just
the way a person looks and of course
that encourages this vertical management
system diminishes feedback loops so you
really don't get set up with a patient a
feedback loop and there's no really
further exploration so I'm totally into
the science just to you know amplify
what you're saying Peter and I want to
any penny time I have the least bit of
resistance or where a person isn't
getting well with kind of a simple
approach I'm well and let me put it this
way if it looks really basic and there
are no complicating factors yes i'm
going to use
education but most of the people come in
with complications because if i ask that
number to question then the whole world
changes dramatically we're going to
review immune dysfunction we're going to
mute review hormones and we're going to
measure their neurotransmitters
precisely before we go ahead and do
anything basically quite quite a bit of
fun really absolutely yeah I agree with
you so as a result of that whole thing
I've changed my practice I mean you know
I'm a guy and it's in a really
significant state of transformation now
I would say this other thing about where
I'm going and where I think I would
encourage all of us to think about yes
people don't use medications correctly
at times and they use them quite
frivolously based on partly on the
diagnostic code so if you have a
diagnosis that's bipolar than bipolar
people need this kind of medication or
whatever and many people who were
bipolar suffer from gluten sensitivity
are from celiac or I have tell you in a
moment about a patient I had it was
really significant corn sugar and
high-fructose corn syrup immune and was
had numerous hospitalizations I'll tell
you about that in just second but the
bottom line if you find out what the
underlying issue is then you can come in
use medications productively and
carefully then correct the underlying
issues redo the functional piece which
is heal the gut heal the areas of the
body that have been compromised by the
immune dysfunction and then turn and
determine the patient around so what I'm
getting at is I think there's a there's
a common ground there which is really
comprehensive medicine I think what
happens to over on the site side if
somebody says they're interested in
functional medicine that brands you as a
reductionistic alee inclined vitamin
person who only thinks that way and on
the other hand are the traditional psych
people the functional people tend to
think of traditional psych people as as
only
thinking that way and I think there's a
nice crown between where a person can
say well I'm I'm really practicing
comprehensive medicine if if a person
needs a psych med we can do a little bit
of that we're going to do that carefully
and if they have these other issues that
are present that are affecting their
brain function of their body function we
would take care of those two it's not
like really something some stones
unturned because we have a philosophic
position that that this or that doesn't
make sense and I think we have to just
continue to do things like we're doing
right here Peters you know tell people
what's going on and form the public the
public is going to change the practice
of medicine because what's happened to
Stephen in my community I remember years
ago when i was doing vitamin d3 the
laboratories will I would it were asking
me what is d3 why are you writing for
that now in my small community here well
Virginia Beach is not that small but but
many of the family practitioners are
writing for it routinely i think so i
think the public changes will ultimately
change medicine so that's a whole nother
issue but I think comprehensive medicine
is where I want to plant my flag and
want to listen to everybody that has
anything to say that might be helpful to
the patient amen to that well said so
tell us then tell us some of the said
meant you mentioned it before that you
had a story that you were going to share
about a patient sure I was hospitalized
I'll go ahead and get into that I mean
this you know just imagine this from all
the girl comes in she's eight years old
and she's been seen by psychiatrists and
she's been five years old and she comes
in with a diagnosis of bipolar illness
and she's significantly compromised and
she's had three hospitalizations one of
which occurred just recently when she
freaked out it was in the winter time
ran out of the house in her underwear
and said she want to kill herself and
was hospitalized that that was the third
hospitalization and she comes in on a
massive dose of psych medications you
know
atypical antipsychotics and anti
epileptic sigh i can't remember i think
was like trileptal and ris / doll or
something very typically used for
bipolar and in the room with me in the
first interview she's there with her
mother and her grandmother and she's
completely wild she standing on her head
has no no long pants on just their
underwear is flashing all over the place
a dress on she's acting in fact like
she's less than five years old and she's
eight and we had to get her handled so
we could just sit and talk and she had a
big canker sore on her lip about the
size somewhere so slightly smaller than
than a quarter but a very large sore
asses ulcer and she had a history of
after soldiers on the inside of her
mouth which I asked about after I saw
the outside sore and her face is
completely pale dark circles under her
eyes I mean anybody that has any
awareness of this would say you know
she's got an immune dysfunction so I
asked her the number to question how
many times the day you go number two and